Visualization 1: Theater vs. Streaming by Genre

This visualization shows the percent of responders who watched movies in the theater and on streaming, broken down by genre. This chart is interactive, and users are able to filter by male, female, and other responders. When 'other responders' is selected, users will notice that there are less genres present. This is because there were significantly less users that responded 'other' as their gender descriptor, and therefore some movies were marked 'did not watch'. From this visualization, we can see that responders are generally more likely to have seen movies in theater compared to on streaming. When filtering for male vs. female, we notice that female responders watched animations in theaters much more than their male counterparts. Thus, we can make the interpretation that genre is a big factor in whether someone decides to watch a movie in theaters or on streaming, as well as gender.

Visualization 3: Streaming Services and Theater Visits

This visualization shows the relationship between the number of streaming services that a responder is subscribed to and how many movies they've seen in the past 3 months. When a user clicks on any segment in the top panel, the bottom panel is filtered to show only respondents with that theater attendance level, which makes it easy to isolate a specific group and see how they distribute across subscription counts. Interestingly enough, this chart goes against the hypothesis that more streaming services would result in a respondant watching less movies in the theater. However, we can see that the only bars with responders who have seen more than 10 movies in theaters are the 5 and 6+ streaming services subscribed to bars. This shows that people who are subscribed to more streaming services might just be more passionate about movies and therefore want to go to the theaters more often as well.

Data: Gathering and cleaning processes

Our data was collected through a survey that we created and distributed. We asked our respondants about their demographic information, movie-watching behaviour, and barriers to going to the theater. We sent this survey to family and friends, as well as posting it on a public forum. We collected 121 responses over the span of a month, and exported our data onto an Excel sheet. The cleaning process was quite simple, since all of the responses were standardized in our survey. The only column that needed cleaning was the location information, which we didn't end up using in our visualizations.


Sankey:

In the Sankey diagram above, we are showing the relationship between gender and barrier to entry, and student status and barrier to entry. We want to know, between the students vs non-students and different genders, what the most common barriers to going to a movie theater are. We can see that the most common reason is “Cost of tickets”, with “No time” and “Don’t feel like it” close behind. These results are reasonable, as in most cases it is cheaper to rent or even buy the movie outright at home, and thus the only benefit of paying the extra cost of the ticket is the theater experience itself.


Main Page:

This project explores the factors that influence moviegoers' decisions to watch films in theaters versus at home. Using survey and film data, we examine how genre, streaming subscriptions, budget, and critical reception relate to theatrical attendance - broken down by gender and viewer demographics. Prior research was done through multiple articles, however our findings are interpreted directly from our visualizations. We’ve created four visualizations to investigate why people don’t go to movies, which movies are successful, and which demographics of people are more likely to go to theaters


